Remote Attacks on Automated Vehicles Sensors:
Experiments on Camera and LiDAR
Jonathan Petit†*
jpetit@securityinnovation.com
Bas Stottelaar†, Michael
Feiri†
basstottelaar@gmail.com
m.feiri@utwente.nl
Frank Kargl†‡
frank.kargl@uni-ulm.de
*Security Innovation †Services, Cybersecurity and Safety ‡Institute of Distributed Systems
Wilmington, MA University of Twente University of Ulm
United States The Netherlands Germany
ABSTRACT
Autonomous automated vehicles are the next evolution in
transportation and will improve safety, traﬃc eﬃciency and
driving experience. Automated vehicles are equipped with
multiple sensors (LiDAR, radar, camera, etc.) enabling lo-
cal awareness of their surroundings. A fully automated vehi-
cle will unconditionally rely on its sensors readings to make
short-term (i.e. safety-related) and long-term (i.e. planning)
driving decisions. In this context, sensors have to be robust
against intentional or unintentional attacks that aim at low-
ering sensor data quality to disrupt the automation system.
This paper presents remote attacks on camera-based system
and LiDAR using commodity hardware. Results from lab-
oratory experiments show eﬀective blinding, jamming, re-
play, relay, and spooﬁng attacks. We propose software and
hardware countermeasures that improve sensors resilience
against these attacks.
Keywords
Security, automated vehicle, remote attack, LiDAR, camera
1. INTRODUCTION
Autonomous automated vehicles (for the sake of clarity short-
ened to Automated Vehicle (AV) in this paper) are getting
close to market. The SAE J3016 [32] deﬁned diﬀerent levels
of automation (from zero to ﬁve), in which Level 5 means
that all aspects of the dynamic driving task under all road-
way and environmental conditions that can be managed by
a human driver are performed by the automation system,
and this, potentially without driver present in the vehicle.
However, automated vehicles can only work properly with
accurate, reliable and trustworthy sensors. Therefore, AVs
are equipped with a multitude of sensors, using diﬀerent
physical properties (light, ultrasound, radio frequency, etc.),
Global Navigation Satellite System and accurate road maps.
Successful examples of AVs are the Stanford Shelley [19],
AnnieWAY [34] or the Google Driverless Car [9]. All of
them use Light Imaging Detection and Ranging (LiDAR) to
detect objects and camera for traﬃc sign recognition and de-
lineation, inﬂuencing the overall mission planning. Indeed,
when the LiDAR detects an obstacle on the road, the mission
is re-planned to avoid that object. LiDAR and camera are
the only sensors based on light, capable of 3D representation
and “reading”, which make LiDAR and camera essential for
proper functioning of AVs.
In that context, resilience of AV sensors against attacks is a
key challenge. Indeed, any attack that degrades sensor data
can cause false driving reaction (or at Level 1-2 automa-
tion, fake warning that would distract the driver), leading
potentially to accidents and fatalities [29]. For example, if
camera is attacked and fooled, it can misread a speed limit
sign, leading to unsafe driving conditions for the vehicle’s
passengers. If a LiDAR detects a fake obstacle because of
an attack and triggers an emergency brake, it will seriously
alter traﬃc eﬃciency if done at a large scale.
Contributions: In this paper, we present attacks on camera
and LiDAR systems. As we think the most realistic type of
attacker will be outside of the target vehicle, we only con-
sider remote attacks. To assess the feasibility and sophisti-
cation of the attacks, we only use commodity hardware (be-
low 60 US$) and perform black-box attacks. Results show
successful blinding, jamming, replay and spooﬁng attacks in
diﬀerent laboratory conditions.
Organization: Section 2 presents the related work in the
domain of automotive security. Section 3 details the sys-
tem attacked. Section 4 describes the attacker model con-
sidered. Section 5 and 6 present attacks on the camera
MobilEye C2-270 and LiDAR ibeo LUX 3, with their respec-
tive countermeasures. Section 7 highlights the limitations of
our experiments, while Section 8 concludes the paper and
presents future work.
2. RELATED WORK
Security analysis of modern automotive systems, especially
in-vehicle networks, is a well-researched topic [16, 22]. Wolf
et al. [36] investigated attacks of automotive bus systems
(LIN, CAN, MOST, FlexRay, Bluetooth) assuming that an
attacker has physical or logical access to the corresponding
vehicle network. Hoppe et al. [12] demonstrated practical